The Lakeland Loop, Lake District. Start point: Broughton-in-Furness. End point: Broughton-in-Furness. Distance: 65km. Elevation gain: 1,393m. If your legs can hack it, the Lakeland Loop will take some beating in the beauty stakes. Once voted Britain’s best bike ride, this tough 65km circuit shows off the lakes at their very best. With the opening kilometres hugging the shoreline of Lake Coniston, it’s clear why cyclists hold the loop in such high regard. Offering spectacular views of the region’s rugged landscape, the undulating and technical terrain negotiates one of England’s toughest climbs. Believe the hype – the mere words 'Wrynose Pass' will induce many a cyclist into a cold sweat. Hitting gradients reaching 30%, don’t be ashamed to drop to a granny gear if you want to reach the summit. Box Hill Olympic Circuit, Surrey. Start point: Box Hill. End point: Box Hill. Distance: 16.8km. Elevation gain: 266m. Follow in the pedals of the pro peloton as you speed through some of south east England’s most accessible and beautiful scenery. A highlight of the 2012 games, the Surrey Hills have risen to become one of the UK’s must-ride locations. On 16.8km of meandering rural roads, this short loop is a great introduction to both the area and the now-iconic Box Hill. With views overlooking the River Mole from the top, the twisting 2.5km ascent is a rewarding test of stamina suitable for both beginners and seasoned riders alike. The Camel Trail, Cornwall. Start point: Padstow. End point: Bodmin. Distance: 19.1km. Elevation gain: 68m. The Settle Circular, Yorkshire. Start point: Settle. End point: Settle. Distance: 64.2km. Elevation gain: 1,142m. The secret is well and truly out: Yorkshire is one of the world's best locations when it comes to cycling. Since the Tour de France flew through the region for three days in 2014, God's Own Country has quickly ascended to the top of many a cycling enthusiast’s bucket list. With an abundance of choice across the county, this leg-aching 64km loop from Settle is Yorkshire at its most beautiful and challenging. As you pass through the picturesque villages of Arncliffe, Kilnsey and Grassington, prepare for short, sharp climbs, fast-rolling descents and stunning views of Pen-y-Ghent and Pendle Hill. Hiking is a long, vigorous walk, usually on trails or footpaths in the countryside. Walking for pleasure developed in Europe during the eighteenth century. Religious pilgrimages have existed much longer but they involve walking long distances for a spiritual purpose associated with specific religions. Hiking is the preferred term in Canada and the United States; the term "walking" is used in these regions for shorter, particularly urban walks. In the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, the word "walking" describes all forms of walking, whether it is a walk in the park or backpacking in the Alps. The word hiking is also often used in the UK, along with rambling (a slightly old-fashioned term), hillwalking, and fell walking (a term mostly used for hillwalking in northern England). The term bushwalking is endemic to Australia, having been adopted by the Sydney Bush Walkers club in 1927.[1] In New Zealand a long, vigorous walk or hike is called tramping.It is a popular activity with numerous hiking organizations worldwide, and studies suggest that all forms of walking have health benefits. In the United States, Canada, the Republic of Ireland, and the United Kingdom, hiking means walking outdoors on a trail, or off trail, for recreational purposes. A day hike refers to a hike that can be completed in a single day. However, in the United Kingdom, the word walking is also used, as well as rambling, while walking in mountainous areas is called hillwalking. In Northern England, Including the Lake District and Yorkshire Dales, fellwalking describes hill or mountain walks, as fell is the common word for both features there. Hiking sometimes involves bushwhacking and is sometimes referred to as such. This specifically refers to difficult walking through dense forest, undergrowth, or bushes where forward progress requires pushing vegetation aside. In extreme cases of bushwhacking, where the vegetation is so dense that human passage is impeded, a machete is used to clear a pathway. The Australian term bushwalking refers to both on and off-trail hiking. Common terms for hiking used by New Zealanders are tramping (particularly for overnight and longer trips), walking or bushwalking. Trekking is the preferred word used to describe multi-day hiking in the mountainous regions of India, Pakistan, Nepal, North America, South America, Iran, and the highlands of East Africa. Hiking a long-distance trail from end-to-end is also referred to as trekking and as thru-hiking in some places. In North America, multi-day hikes, usually with camping, are referred to as backpacking. The poet Petrarch is frequently mentioned as an early example of someone hiking. Petrarch recounts that on April 26, 1336, with his brother and two servants, he climbed to the top of Mont Ventoux (1,912 meters (6,273 ft), a feat which he undertook for recreation rather than necessity. The exploit is described in a celebrated letter addressed to his friend and confessor, the monk Dionigi di Borgo San Sepolcro, composed some time after the fact. However, some have suggested that Petrach's climb was fictional. Jakob Burckhardt, in The Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy (in German in 1860) declared Petrarch "a truly modern man", because of the significance of nature for his "receptive spirit"; even if he did not yet have the skill to describe nature. Petrarch's implication that he was the first to climb mountains for pleasure, and Burckhardt's insistence on Petrarch's sensitivity to nature have been often repeated since. There are also numerous references to Petrarch as an "alpinist", although Mont Ventoux is not a hard climb, and is not usually considered part of the Alps. This implicit claim of Petrarch and Burckhardt, that Petrarch was the first to climb a mountain for pleasure since antiquity, was disproven by Lynn Thorndike in 1943, Mount Ventoux was climbeds by Jean Buridan, on his way to the papal court in Avignon before the year 1334, "in order to make some meteorological observations" and there were ascents accomplished during the Middle Ages, Lynn Thorndike mentions that a book on feeling for nature in Germany in the tenth and eleventh centuries, noted various ascents and descriptions of mountains from that period and that in the closing years of his life archbishop Anno II, Archbishop of Cologne ((c. 1010 – 1075)) climbed his beloved mountain oftener than usual. However, the idea of taking a walk in the countryside only really developed during the 18th century in Europe, and arose because of changing attitudes to the landscape and nature associated with the Romantic movement. In earlier times walking generally indicated poverty and was also associated with vagrancy: In previous centuries long walks were undertaken as part of religious pilgrimages and this tradition continues throughout the world.