The Lakeland Loop, Lake District. Start point: Broughton-in-Furness. End point: Broughton-in-Furness. Length: 65km. Elevation gain: 1,393m. If your legs can hack it, the Lakeland Loop will take some beating in the beauty stakes. Once voted Britain’s best bike ride, this tough 65km circuit shows off the lakes at their very best. With the opening kilometres hugging the shoreline of Lake Coniston, it’s clear why cyclists hold the loop in such high regard. Offering spectacular views of the region’s rugged landscape, the undulating and technical terrain negotiates one of England’s toughest climbs. Believe the hype – the mere words 'Wrynose Pass' will induce many a cyclist into a cold sweat. Hitting gradients reaching 30%, don’t be ashamed to drop to a granny gear if you want to reach the summit. Box Hill Olympic Circuit, Surrey. Start point: Box Hill. End point: Box Hill. Length: 16,8km. Elevation gain: 266m. Follow in the pedals of the pro peloton as you speed through some of south east England’s most accessible and beautiful scenery. A highlight of the 2012 games, the Hills of Surrey have risen to become one of the UK’s must-ride locations. On 16,8km of meandering rural roads, this short loop is a great introduction to both the area and the now-iconic Box Hill. With views overlooking the River Mole from the top, the twisting 2,5km ascent is a rewarding test of stamina suitable for both beginners and seasoned riders alike. The Camel Trail, Cornwall. Start point: Padstow. End point: Bodmin. Length: 19,1km. Elevation gain: 68m. Perfect for a day of carefree cycling, a family ride or an easy Sunday saunter, the Camel Trail has something for everyone. Running the length of a disused railway line – the largely traffic-free route spans 19km of beautiful Cornish countryside. Start your ride in Padstow with a trip to one of Rick Stein’s many eateries, before following the well-surfaced estuary path to Wadebridge. If your legs are tired, you can call it a day here or carry on towards Bodmin, passing through idyllic woodland and some of the south west’s most breathtaking landscapes as you go. The Settle Circular, Yorkshire. Start point: Settle. End point: Settle. Length: 64,2km. Elevation gain: 1,142m. The secret is well and truly out: the Circular in Yorkshire is one of the world's best locations when it comes to cycling. Since the Tour de France flew through the region for three days in 2014, God's Own Country has quickly ascended to the top of many a cycling enthusiast’s bucket list. With an abundance of choice across the county, this leg-aching 64km loop from Settle to Yorkshire at its most beautiful and challenging. As you pass through the picturesque villages of Arncliffe, Kilnsey and Grassington, prepare for short, sharp climbs, fast-rolling descents and stunning views of Pen-y-Ghent and Pendle Hill.